Thank you for coming in today, and I'm happy to help you with your preparing for your interview. Why don't we start by having you tell me a little bit about yourself? So I'm a senior communications major here at Curry, graduating anticipated graduation is May 2015. I have very strong points in working with people. I am very involved here at Curry, so I'm a part of the student activities office. I'm a student worker there. It's an orientation leader as well. I have a background in theater. I've spent almost half of my life doing theater. I have vocal talents. I've taken voice lessons for nine years. I don't know what else to say. I don't know, like, what else to talk about. I'm from Franco Vance. Overall, really good. I think you did a really nice job of showing both parts of your background, but also some interest. Really helps to paint a picture of who you are as a person. I think what you need to be careful of and what is a common mistake is to not just reiterate everything that they're looking at on your resume. So once you start to get into that I'm at this type of major and that I did this job and then before that I did that job. All you're doing is reading your resume to them and they've already read your resume that's why they brought you in as a candidate. So you kinda have to think about what your pitch is and what your story is and what is it that I want them to know within the first few minutes of meeting me. And that's really hard. This isn't something that's an easy thing to do, but you wanna just try to stay away. And you actually did a good job. I would say you weren't I've I've had, you know, I well, I'm from Franklin, Mass, and I I went to such and such high school, and then I went to Curry College, and then I did this job. And you didn't do that, which was good, but you wanna try to stay away from what I kind of would describe as, like, the chronology of your background and more as a summary of who you are as a candidate, what you're looking for, where your passion lies as it relates to the position. What is a weakness that you have? A weakness is when things are going aren't going my way. I tend to like stress myself out to the max, and I just don't know where to go from there. But then when it all comes down to it, I can pick myself back up. And so it's a weakness that builds into a strength kind of thing. I have a little bit of a formula that I like students to follow when it comes to answer this question because this is a tough one. And it's a three part formula. One, pick something that's honest and authentic. So you did that. I didn't get the, oh, I'm just I work too hard. Right? That's not very authentic. So you did. You picked an authentic weakness. Step two is to not pick a weakness that's gonna throw yourself under the bus. So you don't wanna say for instance, you're going into PR, I really don't like working with people. Like that's a weakness that's gonna be a deal breaker for that kind of industry. Three, you then take it and you talk about how you mitigate that weakness. So that's where the step, the third step I'd want you to take. So I think you hit one and two, but three would be to then say, so typically what I do when I feel myself getting really overwhelmed is I stop, I take a breather, or I begin to write lists, or I figure out a way to organize my day. So that if you were to ask my my coworkers at Outback, they probably have no idea that I'm this, but internally this is something that I go through and so these are the things that I do to make sure that it doesn't affect my work. Can you give me an example of an accomplishment you've had and what that tells us about you? So I think one of my greatest accomplishments is the general focus of me going to college because initially graduating high school, I didn't I wasn't planning on going to college. I was a c student in high school. I wasn't involved in anything. Basically, just went to school and left and didn't really do much. And then coming to college, I had that mindset of, oh, I'm just gonna, like, do whatever. And then I got involved on campus. I ended up getting Dean's List both semesters of my freshman year and then both semesters sophomore year, and then it continued up until my senior year. I've made Dean's List every almost every semester, a couple of semesters I haven't, but close enough. I'm extremely involved on campus. I was an orientation leader. I have been involved in Curry Theater, and I'm participating in all of these specific things that go on at Curry, which initially I had no I had no idea or anticipation of me doing anything that I've done at Curry so far. So I think that right there is a great aspect of my life that I initially had never expected to happen. Great. I think again, very good very good sort of common way to answer an interview question. Think taking it up a notch is to complete the question which I kind of fed you which was and that what does that tell us about you as a worker and that's usually not how that question's gonna be asked. They'll say, what's can you give me a sense of of an accomplishment that you've had? But what you want in your brain to do is to translate that for them. So your example of making Dean's List. So I didn't think I was, you know, gonna go to college and then I went to school and I made Dean's List immediately. And what that can tell you about me is that once I get myself going, I'm really committed, that I've got great time management skills, You know, it took me a little while to really put a commitment to education, but once I did, I was committed and that's where I am now. And, you know, start to think about what those what is it that made you get that accomplishment? So what skills because those are transferable skills. Those skills that you might that helped you to get dean's list are the same type of skills that an employer wants. That time management, the attention to detail, the getting things done, getting things done on time. Those are the things that help you to get dean's list. They're also the things that help you be a productive employee. So anytime you have an opportunity to talk about an accomplishment, you wanna tie it immediately back to what attributes about you helped you get that accomplishment because that's gonna paint a picture for them of what kind of worker you're gonna be. What do you think sets you apart from other candidates? This sort of ties into, like, my strengths. I'm incredibly well at communicating with people and just being with people in general. I I tend to have people gravitate towards me when I when I go places. I'm respectful. I am able to put forth any effort to help others, including myself, but others as well. And I'm just very creative as well and I'm always able to bring like a creative aspect into a situation. So So again, I would encourage you to think about what sets you apart, what makes you truly different, and oftentimes look at your combination of experiences because most people won't have the exact same background as you. So if you piece together the different areas that make you different, so it might be the combination of event planning plus the theater or something that is a real interesting cross section that then brings a certain caliber to the workplace and kinda figure out what that is. And I think the other part of it is anytime you have an opportunity to talk about a story or an example that that could have been a good another opportunity to to provide an example to support what you're saying in the when you answer that question. Do you have any questions for us? I don't have any questions. Thank you. We always wanna have questions prepared prior to coming into an interview and oftentimes what happens is just through the back and forth of the interview those questions get naturally answered. That said, you do wanna have some additional questions or have questions that are most likely not gonna get answered unless you ask them. And so the best way to do that is through company research. Research that organize organization, research how they've been covered in the news. If you ask a question related to, you know, PR agency or interviewing with a PR agency and you saw in the news that they just had a new client come on, that's a great opportunity to show that you've been really keeping track of them as an organization. So, you know, I noticed that you are now a PR agency for x y z company. Can you tell me a little bit about how that might impact the work of this area that I'm interviewing for? So that's a way to show that you've been engaged and you've been following them and that you're really interested in them as an organization. And it also gives you a chance to ask a really good question. I would say overall very good. I think you are your interviewing level is at above average of a typical college student. I think this feedback is intended to take you to the next level and to be more on the professional seasoned professional level of interviewing. So it's not an orgasm. I think a lot of times students think it's just answering the questions and there's a right way to answer, a wrong way to answer, and it's an a b c. It's not that. It's really a back and forth conversation, and you should be driving the interview as much as them. So it's your opportunity to learn about the position, the organization. You're anytime you're on an interview, you're trying to figure out whether this organization's a good match for you as much as they're trying to figure out whether you're a good match for them.
