Thank you very much. This is the Yaram of Springfield meeting agenda for 09/02/2025 starting at exactly, 6PM. Mayor Patrick Terian calling this to order with all council present. That will be deputy mayor of Fuel, councilor Kaczynski, councilor Miller, and councilor Warren. Then we'll go to a land acknowledgment there. The arm of Springfield acknowledges that we are gathered on ancestral lands, Treaty One territory, traditional territory of Anishinaabe, Cree, Oji Cree, Dakota, Dene's people and on the national homeland of the Red River and Metis. Approval of the agenda. Could I get a mover and a seconder for that, please? Councilors Warren and Fuel, there is one addition to be added to the the agenda. I'll let the CEO read that. Be it resolved that the agenda be amended as follows. Add new business replacement of discharge pump, Main Street, and Oakwood Road. With that read, can I get a show of hands of those in support? That is unanimous and so carried. Any other additions or comments from counsel? I see none. And at this point here, get a show of hands in support of the approval of the agenda as unanimous. So carried. Item five is the adoption of the minutes. Mover or second, please. Terian and Kaczynski. Any questions at all for the, council minutes, for August 19 additions or deletions? I see none. If I can get a show of hands for support first. That is unanimous and so carried. We'll go to reports, please, as item six one in our agenda. Can I get a mover and a second replace? Warren and Fuel. Any comments, Councillor Miller? Thank you, mayor. Just, noticed you didn't have a report, but you did indicate that, you had, I believe, a board meeting or an update from John Q. Could you enlighten us if there was anything that came out of that? I I sent you the, the report, there, for, John q. There's some kind of a it's it's it's on my part. It's nobody else's fault. I thought I had done it, and, and I'm I'm confident I did, I must have been sent and lost in the queue somewhere. As you're all unaware, I don't think anybody's a real techie giant, and I'm certainly not. But, that report is, I'll add that to our, my next, meeting there. And if somebody has it here, I'll read it aloud, there. Yeah. So I I sent a report to to everybody here, so everybody should, should have a copy of it. Thank you. Just a follow-up for that. Was there any discussion on the allocation of funds that went through Boom Done Next and or Marni Larkin? I think there was, some, challenging words that were I don't know if they're accusations. I don't know if there's reality or truth to them, but was anything discussed on the allocation of funds during the caretaker period or just before the caretaker period when the province took part? And or do you know of any investigation that's going on? You were a member of that board at that time when that money was transferred, so I'm just curious to know if you can enlighten us on any aspect of that. I think I answered that question when you're emailed there, but I'll I'll say publicly here. There is a I don't know if it's even in a proper investigation, but there is something from the auditor general, there. And as for discussions, I'd have to read my report what I sent out yourselves there. We're waiting for the report like anybody else. That is an administrative issue. I wouldn't and I wouldn't be asked for interview or anything with regards to that. So it's, it's in the process. So to to be fair, I don't think I should con I should talk about it, but there is nothing to talk about. I didn't, I wasn't privy, to any discussions on that. Anything else? Okay. With that there, like I say, I will have, September, or August and September reports for the next meeting coming up. Could I get a show of hands of those in support of the reports as read? That is unanimous and so carried. Then if we can go to 6.2, please, that is departmental reports. Move her in a seconder, please. Warren and Kaczynski. Questions of regards to the the reports? I see none. If I can get a show of hands, those in support of the departmental reports. Unanimous. So carried. Then if we can go to bylaw readings under 8.1. Bylaw twenty five thirteen approach bylaw second reading. Move her in the second order, please. Fuel and Warren. Be it resolved that second reading be given to bylaw number 25 dash 13 being a bylaw of the Arms Springfield to provide certain restrictions as to location, construction, and number of exits from and entrances to private property via municipal roads. Questions, from my counsel? I see none. With that resolution being read, can I get a show of hands, for bylaw twenty five thirteen second reading? Carried, unanimous. If we can go to 8.2, same thing, third reading, mover and a seconder, Terian and Miller. Be resolved that third and final reading be given to bylaw number 25 dash 13 being a bylaw of the Irma Springfield to provide certain restrictions as to the location, construction, and number of exits from and entrances to private property via municipal roads? If there's no questions, then we'll proceed, to the vote, and I see none. If I can get a show of hands, those. Do you have a question? Oh, you're way ahead of me then. Okay. Those in support? 30. Oh, let's do it again. We're all out of sync here. So that is unanimous. So carried. Alright. Consent agenda, that's if we can do it all in as a 10.1, 10.2, and 10.3, four, and five. So we got those items under consent agenda. Can I get a mover in a seconder, please, with regards to that? Warren and Fuel, any opposition to doing the consent agenda? I see none. If, I can get a show of hands of those in support, of the consent agenda as read. That's unanimous. So carried. Under, new business, if we can look at 11.1, please, mover in a seconder, for Federation of Canadian Municipalities. That's, Warren and, Fuel. Any questions with regards to this at all? Seeing none. If I can get a show of hands, for those Need to read the resolution? Yeah. He may as well. Sorry. Yeah. Whereas a climate adaptation plan will identify, assess, and prioritize climate risks across municipal infrastructure and services and provide a road map to guide future municipal action and investments. Be it resolved that Council of the Army Springfield direct staff to apply for a funding opportunity from the Federation of Canadian Municipalities Green Municipal Fund under the climate ready plans and processes stream to support the development of a climate adaptation plan. Thank you very much. Any questions from council regards to this FCM? I see none. With the resolution being read, can I get a show of hands to those in support? That is unanimous and so carried. And if we go to 11.2, please, financial statements for July 2025, a mover or seconder, tearing and fuel. Be resolved that the financial statement for July 2025 be approved as presented. Questions, from counsel with regards to this. Councilor Kaczynski? Thank you, mayor. On page one of financial report, it's, recreation and cultural services, and we spent $2,000,000 more what those expenses was for. I don't know if I'm gonna be able to know that just from this document. I'd have to go drill into that so I can get back to you with that information. Appreciate that. K. Thank you. Any other questions from council? I see none. Then if we can read the resolution, we can, vote on that. That'd be it resolved that the financial statement for lie for July 2025 be approved as presented. Thank you. As read, can I get a show of hands to those in support? That's unanimous. It's okay, Reid. 11.3. It's a board of revision appointments, mover and a seconder. Terri and Miller. Be it resolved that the arm of Springfield twenty twenty six board of revision be held 11/13/2025 and be it further resolved that the board be composed of the following people, Doug Shaver, chair, councilor Andy Kaczynski, councilor Melinda Warren, and Christie Greinhard, board secretary. Any, questions from council? I see none. We can go to show hands of those in support. So unanimous and carried. Go to 11.4, please. Supplemental taxes, due, or 2026 supplemental taxes. Move on her secondary, please. Warren and Kaczynski. It resolved that the list of assessment changes dated 09/26/2025 be accepted and that supplemental taxes be authorized with the due date of 01/30/2026. With that read, any questions? And if we can put it to the question, those in support. So carried. Unanimous. If we can go to 11, five, mover to a seconder for social media modernization procedure information purposes only. Move it to seconder. Kaczynski and Warren or, Fuel. This was just for information, so I apologize. I don't have a resolution ready. Okay. You wanna come back to that or go to eleven point six? So I had originally just posted this for information. Our communications marketing and communications coordinator has been working on this procedure for just probably over a month now, and so it's been ready, and we wanted to post it on the website. So I thought just at the same time, we would provide this for council and the public's information. So it's just a moderation procedure that we can follow regarding our social media channels. So we could just pass a resolution accepting it as information at this point. K. Councilor Kaczynski. Thank you. So who is responsible for the social media in our municipality? So Haley Truthwaite is our communications coordinator, and she monitors all the social media channels. And what what the findings are that we're gonna have changes made to the social media procedure? What the findings was that that something happened on the social media that No. I think it's pretty standard practice for most people to have a procedures around their social media. So just quickly, I could list off Selkirk, City of Winnipeg, the province of Manitoba. If you go on to their website, they'll they'll call it something different, either a moderation policy or terms of use for social media, and it just kinda outlines the guidelines that the public is expected to follow on social media and what the RM can do in response to serious breaches or inappropriate material. So the RM does have that option to remove. I don't recall any time that we've had to remove anything so far, but there's always a chance that we would have to in the future, but we wanted to be fully aware to the public what constitutes an appropriate material. And and it's gonna be we don't have it right now. And and and We had something internally, but we wanted to post that on on the public website and just for council to be aware. So we had our internal guidelines, but I thought it was more appropriate that the public would be aware of what those guidelines are. So why why municipality tell anybody what to speak, how to speak, and when to speak? Any social media platform would have those guidelines. This isn't new. And provided by whom? Who provide those guidelines like that? Well, Haley researched that and created those guidelines based on, you know, looking at other people's policies and what seems to be appropriate and not appropriate. And who make the decision what it's appropriate, what's not? Staff did. Council passed the social media policy, and now this is a guidelines procedure that comes from that policy. So so we're gonna be limiting people what they can say and how they're gonna say it? I don't know. It's because of the criticism of the municipality or As I said, basis take do we do we do those changing the procedure? So to date, we have not amended any postings or removed any postings. So, actually, nothing really bad happening. If there are threats to anybody, then anybody just can call whoever threats are associated with. He can call police like councilor Warren did. It was threat, then she called the police and you know? Yeah. But we're not gonna allow people to threaten each other on social media, so that would be a post that we would probably remove if someone was threatening to cause harm. Why would you remove and why wouldn't just somebody call police on that? Well, we would remove it and call the police. Oh, okay. And it it's up to municipality to do that? As long as threat is made to who? Like, your employees or or or our municipal employees? Communication employees train in this area, so she would be the best person to moderate social media and decide what's appropriate or not. Well, did I never spoke with this person about social media. How, as a council, we can, make that decision? We never spoke about this lady who's gonna make the decision. Well, I I guess It's it's up to the counselors to to make those No. No. It's not up to counsel. They don't counsel doesn't moderate the social media. Staff does. I didn't say that. It's counsel to to provide the directions for the our employees or through you, of course, through our CEO. And we do that through the social media policy that was passed and approved by council resolution. Never never that I was aware of the policy. When was that done? I don't have the date off hand. I can provide counsel with the policy, but within the policy, it does say what allowed and not allowed. So this document is just something we put together for the public to to know what's appropriate or not. Okay. So wait for that date of that then. When when that happened was present council approved that. Thank you. The only thing I could add to to that is is anonymous there. Do we take anonymous? I know that Facebook there, they have anonymous there. My idea whether it's necessary or not, it's just that's something you could take back to Hailey or you guys who can look at it. If it's anonymous, then we should not be putting it on there. That's just my opinion. And I know anonymous is included in other people's content, but we find even our Zoom meetings, sometimes people will log in anonymously and use different names, so we don't know who those people are. So we're not too concerned about whether they're anonymous or not. We're just looking at the comments being made. Okay. Should we put in anonymous, there if as as a stipulation? But like you say, I guess what you're saying is that they could put down there Richard Nixon, there, and, you would know otherwise, but, yeah, that makes sense. The deputy mayor? Yeah. I just wanna make it known that I support this procedure, and I believe if there's something that is said or done that's so strong that they'll end up be talking to the counselors or that, and we'll be aware of it. But having said that, I'm fully in support of this procedure. Thank you. I am as well. Mark? Thank you. I think it is important to have a a guideline in some policies to restrict, obviously, racist and and comments that could be hurtful to to people and and such in terms of what the mayor is saying in terms of anonymous. Think it's right. It would be nice for people to disclose themselves, but they can just go under fictitious names. So I'm not sure that we can really solve that point. I do wanna make a comment that a resident, mister Giesbrick, did send in some notes, and he's got some very specific concerns. I'm not sure I share all of those concerns, but I think members of council have had the opportunity to read that. And if the CAA could show it or could share that with, the marketing and communications person so they know what, at least his concerns are. And, of course, if other residents have have concerns, what we don't wanna do is is funnel and kinda channel what the discussion is. We're not a police state, we don't want to be. We want people to have the free ability to share information, share concerns, share but not be racist, heartfelt, or any of those kinds of things. So I think it's important for us to have some sort of guidelines like this. And for your information, I did share, the residents document with Haley already. And I said that after tonight, any other comments, we would discuss it later. So Any other questions at all? I see, none. Is that for a vote or just information? Well, we had, I think, moved by councilor Warren, seconded by councilor Fuel. Okay. Be it resolved that council accept the social media moderation procedure. Can I get a show of hands of those in support? Unanimous. So carried. Then we'll just go to, to adjournment or I'm sorry. We got the addition, on there. Replacement of the discharge, pump 11.6. I'll move her in a second order, please, for that. Terian and Warren. That'd be resolved that Council of the RM Springfield authorize the purchase of a flight model b s dash two two five o submersible pump from Contact Projects Limited to replace the failed discharge pump at the Main Street LDS Lift Station in Oakbank at Main Street in Oakwood Road in the amount of 87,600 plus applicable taxes, tariffs, and reinstallation costs, including electrical and mechanical. I just had a question there, a CEO there. This was something on the twenty eighth identified There is there not provisions for action and circumstances there that this is something like, are we holding off on this now until the council has made a decision on it? So I think Phil is online, but he had made me aware a week ago, and then he's been attempting to get as many quotes as he could. So he did receive two quotes. So the reason for the report is council approval is required as this is an emergency purchase required due to the immediate need and time constraint and that this item was unforeseen and therefore not included in the 2025 financial plan. Okay. So we could have ordered it and then come to council for approval after the fact, but we felt that adding to tonight's, we still had the time to get it approved. And there is I think he put in the timeline, ten to twelve week order period, so we did wanna get this in as soon as possible. Yeah. And I I guess I just wanna to clarify the if it's a one of those circumstances there, if it happens on a Friday and in a long weekend or something like that, I don't want somebody to be hindered, for doing, their job, and Phil's doing an exceptional job. Don't get me wrong there. It's just the if it's needed, it's needed, and let's let's just do it and then bring it to us later on, which is essentially what happened here. But I'm just as long as I reiterate the fact that they shouldn't be, you know, you know, held held to, to this policy when actual circumstances may require this kind of an expense. And then, like I say, if it's ten to twelve weeks, it's an extra four days isn't gonna make a difference, but he's already doing his due diligence anyway. So Yeah. And I think Phil made a good call to put in a temporary pump. So we have reduced capacity right now, so it gives us a little breathing room to get that pump ordered. So Yeah. No criticism on Phil. I think it's an exceptional job. But councilor Kaczynski? Thank you. So do we have program that we check our periodically our our equipment like that so we can see what what's happening with this equipment? Like, for instance, this pump may be every two years, every three years. We should have the pump, you know, program set it up, procedure that, you know, our department are checking on that equipment so we don't have to this situation happening like that. Yeah. So I I think they do do general operation and maintenance, but it was during operation that they noticed it wasn't working properly. But maybe Phil can add more to that if he wants. But I think, yeah, they do do maintenance. It was just this pump's time. Yeah. I understand. Yeah. It happened it's from 1981. So, you know Yeah. They do for replacement anyway. So thank you. Alright. Any other questions from council? If we've read the resolution, if I get a show of hands of those in support, that is unanimous and so carried. Nothing for a close meeting there. If we can go to adjournment, a mover in a second or Friday in the fourteenth for adjournment, please. Miller and Warren. And show of hands, those in support. Unanimous carried. Thank you very much. And we'll close at 06:25. Thank you.
