So our needs statement is a way to reduce hospital days in patients with small bowel obstruction who have had abdominal So we've done some preliminary brainstorming and have some prompts, lots of prompts, to work with. And we're gonna start looking at different embodiments of the solution and just kinda see where where that takes us. Alright. So what your what did you say you wanted to start? Maybe start with mechanical, electrical, and there were a couple other Yeah. Go for it. Okay. So we we could do Or we just spend some time on mechanical first, and then when we hit a wall, then we'll I meant Oh, yeah. It's a good idea. Okay. So something that goes through the obstruction and changes the shape of the bowel, like, untangles it. Okay. Right. Okay. How about something that's, like, inside the peritoneum and agitates around and breaks up adhesions? Okay. Okay. Cool. Untangles bowel, so that could be from inside. But I suppose it could be External also. Yeah. And so it's just just manipulating it. Yeah. Okay. Okay. And so breaks adhesions inside. Yeah. In other ways, how does it break it? This could be outside, though, too. And does it it cuts it. It can cut it. Yeah. It could, like Dissolve. Dissolve. Yep. Vaporize. Heat. Let's go so Cool. I don't know if it's okay to go back and forth. But so untangling so magnets, you know, can we do you, like, have Sure. Two magnetic ends, so there's magnets involved. Is it just is it wire? Yeah. Or maybe, like, an automatic thing attached to the bed that shakes the, you know, massage type of a thing. Yeah. Yeah. I think that gets to, like, could we just do sort of, like, a physical therapy, like, man move Yeah. Maneuver the the patient. Right. And gravity seems to help get help patients get better. So if we could kind of replicate that somehow is move them around or move, I guess, motion. When we say mechanical, I have one other sort of area of idea about sort of Yeah. Things that would go through and just try to instead of trying to break the obstruction or untangle the bowel, let's sort of just get rid of what's in there and what, you know, all that. Yeah. What's blocking. So remove the blockage. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And, like, we just saw that device with Roto Rooter. Rinsing. Yeah. Yeah. Has It some, like, algorithm for, like, spinning around. It's got gyroscope, and then it, like, untangles the bowel, like, in a path of least resistance. Okay. I gotta write that up there. Yeah. Gyroscope and movement that it can manipulate the bowel from the inside. And this could have it could have algorithms that automatically do it, or it could be remotely controlled. Roomba. Right. Something like that. Yeah. Like Roomba. Exactly. Bowel Roomba. Yeah. Bowel Roomba. You wanna try another prompt? Yeah. Let's try a different prompt. Okay. Totally different. Great. So You moved in our walls here? Oh, we we were gonna do electrical. You wanna do okay. Let's go there. Okay. This is mechanical. Alright. Electrical. This side. Okay. So what falls under electrical? I mean, shock. So the bowel movement is peristalsis. Oh, yeah. All of that nerve. So That bowel movement. Yeah. Shock is good. It to activate the bowel, which is kinda sleeping. The process of brainstorming is well, I think if to be most effective, it's a very high energy activity where everyone is participating, and you just the ideas come very rapidly, and you can really build off each other and build off each other's energy. And so when the energy starts to sag and you start to lose momentum, then sort of changing, changes directions sort of renews that vigor. And then a lot of times you'll find that you'll come back to something where, you know, you got stuck earlier. But I think it's important to just keep the energy, keep the flow going. The first brainstorming session we did, it ended not because we're out of ideas, but just because we're out of time. But that was fine. Gave us all a chance to kind of work with the ideas that we had come up with. The next time we came together, people said, oh, here's something else I had. I was able to sort of get us jump started on that next phase.
